You sit down to study for your exam. You
look at the material and it's way more
than you expected. So, you tell
yourself, "Okay, I'll just start with
chapter one." 30 minutes later, you're
still on page two. You reread the same
paragraph three times and somehow
remember less each time. Then you check
your phone for a second and suddenly
it's been 2 hours and you haven't
actually studied anything. Sound
familiar? Most students don't fail
because they're not smart enough. They
fail because they're using the slowest
possible way to study. But what if you
could go through an entire exams worth
of content in a few hours and actually
remember it? Stick around because in
this video I will give you the five best
study hacks to learn so fast it feels
like cheating. Make sure to watch till
the end because the last technique is
that one hack that cuts your study time
in half. Stop rereading. Ever notice how
you can read the same page three times
and still not remember anything? That's
because rereading feels productive, but
it's not. Your brain recognizes the
information, so it tricks you into
thinking you've learned it. But
recognition isn't memory. Here's the
fix. Read a section once, then close
your notes and force yourself to write
down everything you remember. No
peeking, no shortcuts. At first, it'll
feel uncomfortable. That's a good sign.
That's your brain actually working.
Because if you're not forcing your brain
to recall, you're not actually studying.
The blurting method. This is the fastest
way to figure out what you actually
don't know. Instead of spending hours
going over everything, you do this. Read
a topic once, close your notes, then
blurt everything you remember onto a
blank page. Now look at what you missed.
Those gaps, that's your real study
material, not the stuff you already
know. Not the stuff that looks familiar,
just the gaps. This cuts your study time
in half instantly because you stop
wasting time on things your brain
already understands. Study in deadlines.
Ever notice how you suddenly become
super focused the night before an exam?
That's not motivation. That's pressure.
When you don't have a time limit, your
brain slows down. It drifts. It
procrastinates. So, instead of saying,
"I'll study this chapter," you say, "I
have 20 minutes to finish this." Set a
timer. Make it slightly uncomfortable.
Now your brain has a reason to move
faster because work expands to fill the
time you give it. And if you give it
unlimited time, it will take all of it.
The 80/20 exam strategy. Here's where
most students completely waste their
time. They try to study everything, but
exams don't work like that. Usually 80%
of the questions come from 20% of the
content. So, instead of going through
your notes line by line, you focus on
what actually shows up. Look at past
exams. Find repeated topics. Identify
the key concepts your teacher keeps
coming back to. That's your priority
because top students don't study more,
they study what matters. The two-pass
system. This is the technique that
changes everything. Most [snorts]
students try to fully understand
everything on the first try. That's why
it takes so long. Instead, you do this
in two passes. First pass, move fast. Go
through all the material quickly. Don't
try to master it, just understand the
structure. Get the big picture. Second
pass. Now you go back and attack your
weak spots using active recall and
blurting. What this does is build a
mental map first and then fill in the
gaps. And that's how top students can go
through an entire syllabus in hours
instead of days. So, if you want to
study for exams faster than everyone
else, here is your five-hack study cheat
sheet. Stop rereading. Use active
recall. Use the blurting method to find
your gaps. Study with deadlines, not
open time. Focus on the 20% that
actually matters. And use the two-pass
system to tie everything together. Do
this and you won't need 10-hour study
days anymore. Which one of these hacks
is new for you and which one are you
going to try instantly? Let us know in
the comments. Make sure to subscribe and
check out our channels for more study
hacks.